.. _licenses:

========
Licenses
========

D-Wave Documentation
====================

Copyright |copy| |dwave_systems_inc|

|dwave_systems_inc| (|dwave_short|), its subsidiaries and affiliates, makes
commercially reasonable efforts to ensure that the information in this document
is accurate and up to date, but errors may occur. NONE OF D-WAVE SYSTEMS INC.,
its subsidiaries and affiliates, OR ANY OF ITS RESPECTIVE DIRECTORS, EMPLOYEES,
AGENTS, OR OTHER REPRESENTATIVES WILL BE LIABLE FOR DAMAGES, CLAIMS, EXPENSES OR
OTHER COSTS (INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION LEGAL FEES) ARISING OUT OF OR IN
CONNECTION WITH THE USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR ANY INFORMATION CONTAINED OR
REFERRED TO IN IT. THIS IS A COMPREHENSIVE LIMITATION OF LIABILITY THAT APPLIES
TO ALL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND, INCLUDING (WITHOUT LIMITATION) COMPENSATORY, DIRECT,
INDIRECT, EXEMPLARY, PUNITIVE AND CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, LOSS OF PROGRAMS OR
DATA, INCOME OR PROFIT, LOSS OR DAMAGE TO PROPERTY, AND CLAIMS OF THIRD PARTIES.

|dwave_short| reserves the right to alter this document and other referenced
documents without notice from time to time and at its sole discretion.
|dwave_short| reserves its intellectual property rights in and to this document
and its proprietary technology, including copyright, trademark rights,
industrial design rights, and patent rights. |dwave_short| trademarks used
herein include |dwave_short_tm|, |cloud_tm|, Ocean\ |tm|, |dwave_5kq_tm|,
Advantage2\ |tm|, |dwave_2kq|\ |tm|, |dwave_short| 2X\ |tm|,
|dwave_short| Learn\ |tm|, |dwave_short| Launch\ |tm|, and the |dwave_short|
logos (the |dwave_short| Marks). Other marks used in this document are the
property of their respective owners. |dwave_short| does not grant any license,
assignment, or other grant of interest in or to the copyright of this document,
the |dwave_short| Marks, any other marks used in this document, or any other
intellectual property rights used or referred to herein, except as |dwave_short|
may expressly provide in a written agreement. This document may refer to other
documents, including documents subject to the rights of third parties. Nothing
in this document constitutes a grant by |dwave_short| of any license,
assignment, or any other interest in the copyright or other intellectual
property rights of such other documents. Any use of such other documents is
subject to the rights of |dwave_short| and/or any applicable third parties in
those documents.

Ocean
=====

Below are the open-source licenses for the SDK and its tools:

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 1

    licenses/dimod
    licenses/sdk
    licenses/binarycsp
    licenses/cloud
    licenses/gate
    licenses/hybrid
    licenses/dnx
    licenses/optimization
    licenses/system
    licenses/minorminer
    licenses/penaltymodel
    licenses/preprocessing
    licenses/samplers

Ocean software also includes non-open-source packages you can optionally install
with the following D-Wave end-user license agreements (EULAs):

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 1

    licenses/drivers
    licenses/inspector
